GRAVITY clocks represent relationships and attachments you have with people and with groups. They’re not measures of how much someone loves or hates you: they are countdowns to when a relationship is challenged, confronted or addressed. What this looks like is up to you and the other party—it might be an admission that you want a different kind of relationship, a commitment to things continuing as they are, or you accepting that the relationship should be over entirely—but it should be significant. GRAVITY clocks don’t have to be positive: they are for star-crossed lovers just as much as fierce rivals meeting on the battlefield time after time. If it seems like the forces of the universe are dragging two people together often, it might be GRAVITY. 

GRAVITY clocks are 6 segment clocks, and start empty. They are shared between two players or a player and the Director (representing a Director character or a faction/group), and represent their relationship and how those characters see each-other. When the clock advances, it advances for everyone involved: they are both sharing the same clock and the same progress. You’re ticking your shared clock once. 

You don’t need an GRAVITY clock for everyone you meet—you should save them for your character’s relationships you want to focus on and explore in play. For this reason, you may only be part of 3 GRAVITY clocks at a time, as well as 1 for your Rival should you acquire one.

When you make a GRAVITY clock with one of the Director’s actors or a faction/group, you’re showing the Director that they’re someone you want to engage with often in play. When you start a new GRAVITY clock, choose a word or short phrase that sums up the relationship, and give it a value of +1. Whenever you make a move involving the other party of a clock, you may add the clock’s value instead of the normal Trait or value. If you do so, advance the clock. You can start a new clock whenever it feels appropriate.