_One slip, that's all it takes._

Isaac can't count the times he's drilled that thought into a young sailor's head, or the times in his youth it was drilled into his. On the waves or above the clouds, the penalty for carelessness is a watery grave. Check your lifeline, watch your footing, and keep a sharp eye out for squalls and [[Leviathans|leviathan]] storms. So as he sails over the side of the [[Vulture Collective]] [[leviathan hunter|leviathan hunting]] ship into the roiling sea he feels, above all else, a sense of disappointment in himself. The great _Was'utala_, warbird of [[The First Revolution]] and scourge of [[The Royal Tomoteloman Navy]],  is going die because he got cocky during a leviathan hunt. Embarrassing.

He doesn't have time to wallow in self-pity for long. The water hits him in the chest like a jib boom on an old cutter, forcing the breath out of his lungs and shocking him back to reality. He suppresses the urge to inhale seawater and spreads his limbs out to arrest any downward momentum, a cliff diving technique he learned from an older boy with shiny black hair and eyes full of mischief. The water is pitch black and he has lost all sense of direction, until a jagged bolt of red lightning shoots across his vision and he realizes he is looking up towards the surface. He reorients and swims, his lungs screaming for air.

Breaking the surface with all the grace of a wet cat, Isaac gulps in a few breaths and looks around wildly for any sign of his ship. The running lights were extinguished in advance of the hunt, and the spotlight was shattered along with the idiot manning it who thought it would be a good idea to "blind the fucking lizard". Mercifully, a small fire appears to have started on the bridge, casting a flickering light into the darkness for Isaac to follow. He's 50, maybe 75 meters from the ship, but he could be an ocean away and his odds of survival would barely change. When a man goes overboard during a leviathan hunt, he doesn't come back. Isaac swims anyways. The light from the bridge fire bobs up and down in the swell, then jerks violently to the right, accompanied by the crunch of wood and the screech of metal as the leviathan slams broadside into the ship's hull a second time.

Another flash of lightning and in the trio of bolts Isaac finally sees the shape of the creature. It's massive, easily one and a half times longer than the hunting ship, and serpentine. The silhouette is reminiscent of an eel, or even one of the dragons he's seen illustrated in translations of eastern poetry collections. It's beautiful, just like all the others he's seen, chased, hunted. 

Killed. 

A splash in the water, maybe 10 meters to his right. Too loud and massive to be debris. Another leviathan? The wind howls and a wave crashes against wood. It's a lifeboat. A fucking lifeboat, knocked off the ship by the leviathan's assault and sent sailing over to Isaac like some kind of miracle. If he can get in, perhaps he'll stay alive long enough to truly appreciate how hopeless his situation is. They're 50 kilometers from the nearest coastline, even if he knew which way to row the leviathan would catch him well before he collapsed from exhaustion or exposure. He's an old man, lost at sea and driving forward on pure willpower and survival instinct, he might as well stop struggling and embrace his fate. His ancestors call to him, it is time for him to come home.

He reaches the lifeboat and scrambles aboard. The ancestors can wait, they know he's never been any good at giving up. Besides, he's pretty sure at least one of his aunts or uncles was the kind of person who would give him an eternity of grief if he came to them after surrendering to insurmountable odds. Leviathans are one thing, but he's not about to chance it with his relatives, dead or alive.

The lifeboat is—somehow—intact, although there's about a meter of water sloshing around the bed. He casts about for the oars and finds one intact, the other splintered at the flare, useless. Do the ancestors expect him to paddle this thing like a canoe? Before he can answer himself the lifeboat rocks to starboard and he grabs the sides to keep from being thrown back into the sea. More water splashes into the boat as the leviathan surfaces, its head looming over Isaac's bedraggled form. Backlit now by a much larger fire that has started on the ship behind it, the leviathan seems even bigger than when he first glimpsed just it moments ago. In a flash of preternatural insight, Isaac understands that the creature knows exactly where he is, and he is absolutely sure of its next move.

He grabs the shattered oar and brandishes it like a lance. The leviathan bears down on him with frightening speed. They strike.

Isaac doesn't remember falling in, but he knows he's in the water. He does not know why, but he can see clearly, as though he were swimming beneath the sun through the pristine blue waters of his childhood village. The sea is vast, unending and empty, save for the leviathan coiled around his oar. They are face to face, his left arm instinctively latched onto the serpent's body, his right arm still gripping the makeshift lance. At this distance he can now see that unlike an eel this leviathan has small, vestigial legs terminating in claws with wickedly sharp talons. He notices with a disconcerting calmness that one of those talons is embedded deep into his lower-right abdomen. Turning his attention back to the creature he realizes he is staring deep into a black eye the size of his head. The eye stares back, and Isaac knows immediately that the mind behind it is regarding him with an intelligence that rivals—likely surpasses—his own. 

The two creatures stay that way for some time. Perhaps a moment. Perhaps a day. Perhaps a lifetime. Isaac's mind is on fire, consumed by a presence that speaks in flashes of colors he cannot perceive, emotions he cannot comprehend. He finds himself pushing back and responding in kind, asserting his existence and agency to the intruder in ways that are not words and are not thoughts. Rather unexpectedly, this provokes a response. A cessation, or pulling back of sorts, as though whatever encroached upon the boundaries of Isaac's Self was as surprised to find him there as he was to find it. After a moment, or a lifetime, it approaches again. Cautiously this time, almost contritely. Isaac stands firm, drawing a line between what Is and Is Not him. Pulling back again, but not as far, not as fast. A respectful distance. 

Alright, Isaac thinks to himself, and whatever else might be listening. Perhaps, this time, we could try diplomacy?

A sensation of kelp sliding over Isaac's leg. The murmur of a breeze rustling through tall grass. A sudden, intimate understanding of what it's like to be a large rock in the middle of a river, as the current splits obligingly around him, taking infinitesimally small pieces from his mass as it flows by. A temperature that is neither hot nor cold but is explicitly not tepid. Calm.

He supposes that given the circumstances, it will have to do. He steps back from the line. The presence moves politely to fill the space.

Isaac awakens on a beach, coughing and spluttering as the surf rolls up over his face. He sits up with a start and reaches for his oar, grasping only sand. His other hand moves to staunch the bleeding from his torso, but instead of shredded, lacerated flesh he finds hard, iridescent scales. Each scale is a tenth the size of his pinky nail, spread out over a patch of his abdomen roughly the size of his palm. He cranes his neck to get a better look at them. They are green in the way a forest is green, filled with an ecosystem of colors that dance and sparkle, but which meld into an emerald gestalt.

Isaac collapses back on the sand and stares up at the clear, blue sky. The beach is quiet, save for the sound of the surf. But whenever he rests his fingertips on the scales, [[Isaac "Was'utala" Wasomun|Captain Isaac Wasomun]] is certain something is whispering to him in a language he will never know, but will always understand. 